What's New 106 & updated Experiments (Stable 105, Canary 107) (#2186)
MicrosoftDocs/edge-developer: microsoft-edge/devtools-guide-chromium/whats-new/2022/09/devtools-106.md

---
title: What's new in DevTools (Microsoft Edge 106)
description: "Introducing the Command Palette. Filter and automatically fix code issues in DevTools for Visual Studio Code. DevTools now uses less disk space when caching sourcemaps. Chromium color themes have been deprecated. Accessibility improvements in Focus Mode and high contrast mode. And more."
author: MSEdgeTeam
ms.author: msedgedevrel
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.prod: microsoft-edge
ms.date: 09/29/2022
---
# What's New in DevTools (Microsoft Edge 106)

[!INCLUDE [Microsoft Edge team note for top of What's New](../../includes/edge-whats-new-note.md)]

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## Introducing the Command Palette

<!-- Subtitle: Your favorite browser management and DevTools commands in one place. -->

> Command Palette makes it possible to access browser management and developer tools commands with just one keyboard shortcut: `Ctrl`+`Shift`+`Spacebar`.  To access the available browser management commands and DevTools commands, press `Ctrl`+`Shift`+`Spacebar`, and then start typing.  The commands are filtered based on your input characters:

Reviewer: I'm concerned that readers will try this shortcut without first enabling the flag. Can we add something like:

```suggestion
In Microsoft Edge 106, you can now enable the Command Palette experiment. Command Palette makes it possible to access browser management and developer tools commands with just one keyboard shortcut: `Ctrl`+`Shift`+`Spacebar`.  To access the available browser management commands and DevTools commands, complete the following steps:
1. [Enable the Command Palette experiment](https://learn.microsoft.com/microsoft-edge/devtools-guide-chromium/experimental-features/edge-command-palette#enable-command-palette).
1. Press `Ctrl`+`Shift`+`Spacebar`
1. Start typing.  The commands are filtered based on your input characters:
```

Author: Revised to cover enabling.  
Separated the install step(s) from the using steps, and placed the flags screenshot first.  
Added inline steps to enable, since already have the flags page capture here - it's easy to avoid user having to leave What's New.  
Improved the UI description.

---
title: What's new in DevTools (Microsoft Edge 106)
description: "Introducing the Command Palette. Filter and automatically fix code issues in DevTools for Visual Studio Code. DevTools now uses less disk space when caching sourcemaps. Chromium color themes have been deprecated. Accessibility improvements in Focus Mode and high contrast mode. And more."
author: MSEdgeTeam
ms.author: msedgedevrel
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.prod: microsoft-edge
ms.date: 09/29/2022
---
# What's New in DevTools (Microsoft Edge 106)

[!INCLUDE [Microsoft Edge team note for top of What's New](../../includes/edge-whats-new-note.md)]

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## Introducing the Command Palette

<!-- Subtitle: Your favorite commands in one place. -->
<!--           Your favorite browser and DevTools commands in one place. -->

> Command Palette makes it possible to access browser management and developer tools with just one keyboard shortcut: `Ctrl`+`Q`.  Let us know what commands we should add next!

Author: done.  In What's New 106, limited this section to 106 vs. previous versions, not later versions.  See also the linked regular article in this PR, which is broader.  Added important point & screenshot here, about where to view what the shortcut (in a given version) is.  @zoherghadyali @erdraud

To access the available browser management commands and DevTools commands, press `Ctrl`+`Q`.  To filter the commands, start typing:

![Microsoft Edge Command Palette](./devtools-106-images/command-palette.png)

To list or filter the available DevTools commands, press `Ctrl`+`Q`, and then enter the greater-than (**>**) character:

![Microsoft Edge Command Palette entering `>` to select DevTools commands](./devtools-106-images/command-palette-devtools.png)

> *  In Microsoft Edge 108 and later, the shortcut is `Ctrl`+`Q`.

Reviewer: What if we cut this whole section and just did an update when Edge 108 is promoted to Stable with the new keyboard shortcut? This is What's New 106 so I think we should be focusing on the state of the product in 106 itself. @erdraud, please consider.

Author: The shortcut is shown in the flags page under Command Palette.  
* For earlier minor releases of 107, the flags page shows Ctrl+Shift+Spacebar.  
* For later minor releases of 107, the flags page shows Ctrl+Q.  
It's somewhat possible to reword this by leveraging that version-specific flags-page wording.

Author: copy/paste of the above thread's comment:
done. In What's New 106, limited this section to 106 vs. previous versions, not later versions. See also the linked regular article in this PR, which is broader. Added important point & screenshot here, about where to view what the shortcut (in a given version) is. @zoherghadyali @erdraud

> *  In Microsoft Edge 105-107, the keyboard shortcut is `Ctrl`+`Shift`+`Spacebar`.  

Author: done and put 106 line first

See also:
* [Run commands via keyboard with Command Palette](../../../experimental-features/edge-command-palette.md)

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## Filter and automatically fix code issues in DevTools for Visual Studio Code
<!-- todo: mention that the extension supports Compatibility and Security Hints? -->

<!-- Subtitle: Let Visual Studio Code fix web issues for you or tell it never to bother you about them again. -->
 

> The Microsoft Edge DevTools for Visual Studio Code extension now allows you to fix issues automatically or define a `.hintrc` file to never report certain issues again.  This allows you to customize the error reporting and find out not only why something is a problem, but also how to fix it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Microsoft Edge DevTools for Visual Studio Code extension now allows you to fix issues automatically by providing quick fix options with the lightbulb icon. You can also choose to define a `.hintrc` file which will tell the extension to ignore certain issues and not report them again.
```

Author: done

![Source Maps Monitor tool, upon first load](./devtools-106-images/source-maps-indexeddb-first-load.png)

When you refresh the webpage, the **Source Maps Monitor** tool shows that the cached source maps are used:

![Source Maps Monitor tool, upon second load](./devtools-106-images/source-maps-indexeddb-second-load.png)

To clear the IndexedDB cache and force DevTools to re-load sourcemaps, run the **Clear source maps cache** command in the Command Menu.  See [Run commands in the Command Menu](../../../command-menu/index.md).

For history, see [Issue 89](https://github.com/MicrosoftEdge/DevTools/issues/89).

See also:
* [Source maps are now cached with IndexedDB](../../2022/04/devtools-101.md#source-maps-are-now-cached-with-indexeddb) in _What's New in DevTools (Microsoft Edge 101)_

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## Chromium color themes have been deprecated

<!-- Subtitle: Users of Chromium themes in DevTools will be automatically migrated to the default dark or light theme for a more reliable experience. -->

> To improve reliability, the Chromium Light and Chromium Dark themes have been deprecated.  Users who previously had these themes selected will be automatically migrated to the **Light+** or **Dark+** theme, respectively:

Reviewer: If theme names are going to be bolded, I'd recommend bolding the deprecated theme names as well. No strong opinion either way, just be consistent.

```suggestion
To improve reliability, the **Chromium Light** and **Chromium Dark** themes have been deprecated.  Users who previously had these themes selected will be automatically migrated to the **Light+** or **Dark+** theme, respectively:
```

Author: Bolded.  The present presentation includes a UI control; a dropdown list containing UI strings/labels, so pretty easy to make the case for bolding.

DevTools in **Light+** theme: 

![DevTools in Light+ theme](./devtools-106-images/light-plus-theme.png)

DevTools in **Dark+** theme:

![DevTools in Dark+ theme](./devtools-106-images/dark-plus-theme.png)

There are many DevTools color themes to choose from, such as **Monokai** and **Solarized**.  To change the color theme in DevTools, click the **Settings** (![Settings icon](../../../media/settings-gear-icon-light-theme.png)) button, and then in the **Preferences** page, in the **Theme** dropdown menu, select a theme:

![Setting the DevTools theme to Monokai](./devtools-106-images/set-theme-monokai.png)

See also:
* [Apply a color theme to DevTools](../../../customize/theme.md)

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## Accessibility improvements in Focus Mode and high contrast mode

<!-- Subtitle: The new Dock location and Activity Bar location buttons in Focus Mode now work better with screen readers, and computed styles are easier to see in high contrast mode. -->

> #### Dock location and Activity Bar location buttons in Focus Mode now work better with screen readers

Reviewer: Why are these `####` as opposed to `###`? Are you trying to more deeply nest these sections?

Author: No, not trying to deeper nest them.  Skipping h3's is not for logical / semantic reasons, it's deliberate & cosmetic, to effectively communicate that these are child sections by making them perceptibly smaller font than h2's.  In latest .css, h3s are almost as large as h2s.  This skipping of odd h levels is tested & approved/permitted.  Doesn't cause a doc build warning.

Author: Closing as By Design.

---
title: What's new in DevTools (Microsoft Edge 106)
description: "Introducing the Command Palette. Filter and automatically fix code issues in DevTools for Visual Studio Code. DevTools now uses less disk space when caching sourcemaps. Chromium color themes have been deprecated. Accessibility improvements in Focus Mode and high contrast mode. And more."
author: MSEdgeTeam
ms.author: msedgedevrel
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.prod: microsoft-edge
ms.date: 09/28/2022
---
# What's New in DevTools (Microsoft Edge 106)

[!INCLUDE [Microsoft Edge team note for top of What's New](../../includes/edge-whats-new-note.md)]

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## Introducing the Command Palette

<!-- Subtitle: Your favorite commands in one place. -->
<!--           Your favorite browser and DevTools commands in one place. -->

Command Palette makes it possible to access browser management and developer tools with just one keyboard shortcut: `Ctrl`+`Q`.  Let us know what commands we should add next!

> To list the available browser management commands and DevTools commands, press `Ctrl`+`Q`.  To filter the commands, start typing:

Reviewer 2: "To access the available browser..." instead of using the word "list," since commands don't appear without input.

Author: changed

---
title: What's new in DevTools (Microsoft Edge 106)
description: "Introducing the Command Palette. Filter and automatically fix code issues in DevTools for Visual Studio Code. DevTools now uses less disk space when caching sourcemaps. Chromium color themes have been deprecated. Accessibility improvements in Focus Mode and high contrast mode. And more."
author: MSEdgeTeam
ms.author: msedgedevrel
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.prod: microsoft-edge
ms.date: 09/29/2022
---
# What's New in DevTools (Microsoft Edge 106)

[!INCLUDE [Microsoft Edge team note for top of What's New](../../includes/edge-whats-new-note.md)]

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## Introducing the Command Palette

<!-- Subtitle: Your favorite commands in one place. -->
<!--           Your favorite browser and DevTools commands in one place. -->

> Command Palette makes it possible to access browser management and developer tools commands with just one keyboard shortcut: `Ctrl`+`Shift`+`Spacebar`.  Let us know what commands you'd like to see in future versions of Microsoft Edge by filing issues in the [MicrosoftEdge/DevTools](https://github.com/MicrosoftEdge/DevTools) repo!

Author: draft (snapshot, subject to change):
```
Let us know what commands you'd like to see in future versions of Microsoft Edge, by posting a comment in [Issue 73: [feedback] Command Palette experiment](https://github.com/MicrosoftEdge/DevTools/issues/73) in the **MicrosoftEdge/DevTools** repo!
```

![Microsoft Edge Command Palette entering `>` to select DevTools commands](./devtools-106-images/command-palette-devtools.png)

The keyboard shortcut is shown on the `edge://flags` page, in the **Command Palette** section:

![The keyboard shortcut for Command Palette in the flags page for version 106](./devtools-106-images/command-palette-flags-shortcut-106.png)

<!--
What's New 106 focuses on 106 vs. previous versions, not later versions
*  In Microsoft Edge 106 and most releases of 107, the keyboard shortcut is `Ctrl`+`Shift`+`Spacebar`.
*  In Microsoft Edge 108 and later, the shortcut is `Ctrl`+`Q`.
-->

See also:
* [Run commands via keyboard with Command Palette](../../../experimental-features/edge-command-palette.md)

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## Filter and automatically fix code issues in DevTools for Visual Studio Code
<!-- todo: mention that the extension supports Compatibility and Security Hints? -->

<!-- Subtitle: Let Visual Studio Code fix web issues for you or tell it never to bother you about them again. -->
 

> The Microsoft Edge DevTools for Visual Studio Code extension now allows you to fix issues automatically by providing quick fix options with the lightbulb icon.  You can also choose to define a `.hintrc` file which will tell the extension to ignore certain issues and not report them again.

Author: reworded Comment per regular article

#### Dock location and Activity Bar location buttons in Focus Mode now work better with screen readers

In Microsoft Edge 105, Focus Mode received several improvements, including new **Dock location** and **Activity Bar location** buttons.  In Microsoft Edge 106, these new buttons now work better with assistive technologies, such as screen readers.

Screen readers now announce which **Dock location** button or which **Activity Bar location** button is currently selected, and the number of buttons, representing the available location options:

![The redesigned Docking menu in Focus Mode](./devtools-106-images/focus-mode-redesigned-docking-menu.png)

See also:
* [Simplify DevTools using Focus Mode](../../../experimental-features/focus-mode.md)
* [Navigate DevTools with assistive technology](../../../accessibility/navigation.md)
* [Focus Mode: Improved location controls for DevTools, Activity Bar, and Quick View](../../../whats-new/2022/09/devtools-105.md#focus-mode-improved-location-controls-for-devtools-activity-bar-and-quick-view) in _What's new in DevTools (Microsoft Edge 105)_.

#### Computed styles are easier to see in high contrast mode

> In high contrast mode, in previous versions of Microsoft Edge, the expand and collapse buttons for computed styles didn't render correctly, in the **Computed** section of the **Styles** pane in the **Elements** tool.  In Microsoft Edge 106, this issue has been fixed.

Reviewer 3: I don't understand this sentence. There is no Computed section in the Styles pane. The Elements tool has a sidebar where you can use either the Styles pane, or the Computed pane (among other things). But the Styles pane itself doesn't contain a Computed section.

Author: changed to "in the **Computed** tab in the **Elements** tool"

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/45407486/192623524-ed51629c-34c6-4c74-93f7-ee507e79c45d.png)

![Microsoft Edge Command Palette entering `>` to select DevTools commands](./devtools-106-images/command-palette-devtools.png)

<!--
*  In Microsoft Edge 106 and most releases of 107, the keyboard shortcut is `Ctrl`+`Shift`+`Spacebar`.
*  In Microsoft Edge 108 and later, the shortcut is `Ctrl`+`Q`. -->
The keyboard shortcut is shown on the `edge://flags` page, in the **Command Palette** section:

![The keyboard shortcut for Command Palette in the flags page for version 106](./devtools-106-images/command-palette-flags-shortcut-106.png)

Let us know what commands you'd like to see in future versions of Microsoft Edge, by posting a comment in [Issue 73: [feedback] Command Palette experiment](https://github.com/MicrosoftEdge/DevTools/issues/73) in the **MicrosoftEdge/DevTools** repo!

See also:
* [Run commands via keyboard with Command Palette](../../../experimental-features/edge-command-palette.md)

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## Filter and automatically fix code issues in DevTools for Visual Studio Code

> <!-- todo: mention that the extension supports Compatibility and Security Hints? -->

Author: mention that the extension supports Compatibility and Security Hints?   @codepo8
